uh the ultimate way to come up for air
is a dick joke
that's yeah to tie a dick joke into my
dad's death would be phenomenal
yeah i'll come up with one rigor mortis
who knows
right there look at that look at how
easy it is
hey man hey how's it going does my
camera work for you and all that
it does work for me so many things about
what i see work for me
that's i'd love to hear that let's enter
it it's not centered
okay nope
all right we're money all right there we
go it's nice
so you go by ludwig it's uh yeah it's
supposed to be ludwig but i go by ludwig
yeah and what would you prefer that i
call you today
i go with ludwig yeah ludwig okay that
was great
so ludwig um thanks for coming on i
really appreciate it especially oh is
that a deathly hallows water bottle
it is it is i can't take credit it is my
girlfriend's butt
a quick pick up yeah you get to cr you
get to take credit for having a
girlfriend who has a
deathly hallows water bottle though that
was the plan all along all right i
wouldn't have dated her if she didn't
have the water bottle
yeah that's that's dope man um so
you know thanks for coming on i i really
appreciate it um
especially today because we are you know
doing a fundraiser for chalk
um and and i understand that you're a
pretty big deal in the twitch community
so thank you very much for
offering your time well absolutely you
know a big deal seems
flattering but you know this seems like
a cool charity i like
get gamers for chalk yeah i heard you
talking about it it sounds really nice
yeah so hopefully we can help them out a
little bit um
is there something in particular that
you were hoping to talk about today or
or anything that um any questions or
anything that i can potentially help you
with
you know i i have a couple of topics
that uh that came to mind
um i don't feel like i
have like you know compared to most
maybe uh as
deserving of a spot on the show
um like like my girlfriend actually i
think she came on cutie
i don't i don't know if you remember it
was a bit ago uh
you know she she got she got the bag she
got anxiety depression the whole works
and uh and i feel pretty good you know
like um
or fortunate i should say that you know
i don't have
personal problems that i think i mean
that i know of that i feel they need to
talk to but
uh maybe broader subjects like um
they talk about uh parasocial
relationships a lot on stream
sure and uh and i'm sure you have some
some sage dumb about it
and then um the only other thing is
death
i figured you probably know what happens
after we die and i wanted to ask at some
point
sure so i let's man
well said so like i i i really first of
all appreciate how you kind of laid out
how you're thinking about coming on
stream
and the first thing that i want to say
is that i think you are just as
deserving as anyone else
and and i think that um part of the
problem i think that we sometimes get
into on stream is that
we tend to over emphasize people's
struggles and really we're not
and that gets like i think a little bit
too close to psychiatry so like part of
actually what i really like about
um you know understanding the mind and
understanding like life
and understanding yourself is that it's
not necessarily pathology focused
so i think that's where we just you know
a lot of people need help and we're here
to help people but i think like
understanding having conversations
around death or having conversations
even about
what you deserve and what you don't
deserve and do people who struggle with
anxiety quote unquote deserve
more than you do i think those are
actually really important conversations
too
um and i love talking about death cool
so yeah i don't i you love that
sure all right yeah that's high i love
talking about most things
sure i guess that makes sense for you um
and yeah so what what do you wanna
do you wanna talk a little bit more
about you know sort of deserving this
spot or are we kind of done with that
and we can
dive right in i feel fine about it just
wanted to just
lighten it up so i i think um because
the other way to think about it ludwig
is like if we are going to talk about
parasocial relationships and death
really the goal of stream is to you know
help one person
hopefully understand something but
really the goal is to like
talk about things that would benefit our
audience and
you know i think these two things like
if we have a conversation about these
two things i
i have to imagine that a lot of people
will appreciate it and will benefit from
it
so i think it's totally cool yeah makes
sense i'm on board
so we starting with parasocial
relationships or death
i think you're supposed to end with
death so parasocial it is
okay so tell me what is uh and i may not
have sage advice because i think you
guys probably know more about this than
i do
so can you tell me what a parasocial
relationship is
okay yeah so well yeah basically it is
uh you know
a one-way relationship um with
with someone and uh and i think that's
the gist of it but
the way i understand it is basically
people who form relationships with me
their streamer um even though i can't
give anything back personally
uh and then you know they might gain too
much of an attachment
you know a lot of people say things like
i love you and
and uh and
basically treat me as a friend and i
can't reciprocate
okay and and what do you think about
that
you know i've always been pretty chill
with it because i kind of grew up on
youtube
and uh and i feel like i grew up pretty
fine
um but my my roommate slime always
seemed very concerned about it
and uh and then i think as i grew a bit
i was like
huh you know this can be a bit
problematic
because i think my viewership started
getting a bit younger
and uh and i guess more impressionable
um and i just think that especially
now that covet people are on twitch so
much that you know they
sometimes forego irl relationships for
online ones with people that
can reciprocate what's wrong with that
i don't think there's anything
inherently wrong with online
relationships i
think that
i see myself being like i read my
dms and the dms people send me
it feels like it's
i mean i don't know if i want to say
crossing a line but i'm not the guy for
the job
a lot of the time um and they're using
me as the guy for the job and i can't
fulfill the role
what what's the job help me understand
like
hey this is going on do you have any
advice
you know um
i don't know what to do for my
major any basically piece of advice or
just try to talk to someone who will
listen
even um like you would with a friend
they though they might with me
uh and i can't
answer of them all because there's a lot
sure and
and i have in the past a bit but you
know then it gets
weird too because i don't you know i'm
not particularly in
like involved in the person's life so i
don't know the whole thing so
sure so basically that yeah if that
makes sense how do you think that these
relation
why do they dm you for advice about what
they should major in
how do you understand that i don't know
i don't particularly know why i'm the
first maybe
i've thought about this because people
do it for advice they'll also do it for
like
maybe just like money straight up or
they do it
just for like like they'll ask you for
money yeah or
just simple pleasantries or like
terms of endearment um and i
i think it's maybe a mixture of a shot
in the dark
and maybe it's just easier to say to me
first
if that makes sense yeah let me
understand that say it to you first
like if you were gonna be like you know
if i was broke imagine i'm broke as hell
and you're my good friend
and i like i've come to you before and i
don't want to be like yo dr k can you
just slap me a thousand
like it's easier to just ask a random
man on the internet
who probably will ignore it but there's
a chance i'll answer and at least like
practice how i'm gonna say this before i
go to you
yeah sure so why do you think it's
easier to approach the random man
on the internet because you don't think
they'll respond
yeah that's kind of interesting but i
also think devastating because what
you're suggesting and i think this is
true is that
sometimes it's easiest to take the
chances that we know have the highest
likelihood of failure
yeah yeah i think people do that a lot
they do do that
who like send me emails with a resume
being like can i be an editor
i feel like it's the absolute minimum
you could do
um but still doing something
yeah and and
you also mentioned at the early on
something about i love you
you know and what do you think what do
you think people what do you think your
viewers
what do how do they view their
relationship with you
well that's what i'm concerned about you
know i would hope
it is like you know um
like youtube was for me as a kid or like
any show is
i guess like a little form of
entertainment you can hop online too
and maybe pull some character traits for
me that you like and
get some laughs but that's kind of the
uh
the extent of it is that what youtube
was for you
entertainment it was entertainment in
some like life lessons yeah i would say
it was both those things but i wouldn't
say it was like you know
a source of friendship or uh camaraderie
or anything
so i'm hearing you kind of if i were to
infer i'd say that you didn't really
form parasocial relationships with the
youtubers that you watched
i like to think i didn't i could be
wrong but i i imagine i didn't
did you ever tell a youtuber that you
love them
i don't think so it's also just weirder
in a youtube comment
sure um did you ever tell
a youtuber did you ask them to for a job
no i did send a youtuber my youtube
videos
asking for advice
oh sorry what no we oh my god you got a
thousand dollar donation
yeah um by anonymous and 500
from chewbacca sorry we're get we'll get
to donations in a second i don't want to
cut me off for a rack that's fair
thank you guys very much for supporting
chalk
yes good job 11k here we come
um anyway you were saying that you you
never asked them for a job but you maybe
did ask for advice
i i might have asked for a job you know
when you're
16. i definitely have asked for jobs in
a lazy fashion
um before 100 but i do vividly remember
asking for advice on a youtube video i
made when i was 16
from like a larger youtuber and uh he
actually replied
um which was hype he said
kind of funny jokes but [ __ ] quality
setup
that's what he said yeah and replied
what was your question i don't
understand no it was like do you have
any advice
on like my youtube videos because i sent
him a video i had made
oh i said i thought to this video and
how that's pretty good
how did that make you feel when you
responded
it i think didn't matter because i had
already quit at that point but i thought
it was cool that he replied for sure
what was cool about that that he took
the time for a young 16 year old boy
yeah so we're going to point something
out ludwig what did you just do
uh thanks the anonymous donator in
conjunction with you and brought up a
story about
uh addiction yeah so so
so like you just changed your voice a
little bit uh-huh
right yeah and yeah you kind of made a
joke out of it you're like yeah
oh like was nice for a 16 year old boy
you're roasting me live on twitch.tv you
know well
i can stop if it if it makes me oh
you're so good you're so good i did do
that yeah
what well how do you understand why you
did that
uh how i made the voice you make it more
spicy no no no i mean but why did you
make the voice in that moment
a little flare yeah but why flare at
that point i completely agree it's flare
you're cracking a joke you're making it
a little bit funny
well then because i guess it was a bit
i was a bit goofy that i uh everybody
just put me laughing you got me
it was a bit goofy that the whole entire
situation but it's something i look
maybe fondly back on
yep um but you know
yeah yes so it's kind of interesting
because i i think actually like what
you're doing is lightening i think the
significance of it
okay yeah why'd i do that so so i i
think it
we can get to that in a second i just
let's notice it first right so we start
with observations
and then like we can develop hypotheses
down the road the more data we collect
the more accurate right but like
i think that sometimes people feel
uncomfortable if i had to venture
sometimes like people feel uncomfortable
like talking about
things that are impactful to them and so
what we do is we like make light of it
gosh okay right yeah well yeah i just
don't like bringing too much gravity to
gravity to
to things that's around me usually i
like to keep it light fluffy
yeah perhaps that's it yeah so so then
if we
if you really want to go off the rails
what what makes it hard for you to sit
with gravity like
you know important things well you know
gravity comes with a bit of weight and i
don't like throwing weight around i like
throwing light and fluffy it's a little
more
fun a little easier yep absolutely
it's fun it's easier serious
i'm i'm with you so now i'm going to
give you a choice ludwig we can dig into
that we can go off on that tangent but
that tangent is going to be a little bit
more personal
but i also want to fully respect you
know what you want to do and what you
don't want to do we're going to ignore
twitch chat don't care about what they
think it's not about that
gotta go down the road dr k that's why
you
we have to nope i want to
do you feel beholden to
in yeah okay what does that word
mean so it do you feel obligated to hmm
um or do you really think it's i think
it's a more hype road to go down
and that's what i'd prefer okay
why do you choose the hype road well
because
when it's hype it's more fun it would be
regrettable to not pick a hype decision
yeah so so once again you gravitate
towards fun
and lightheartedness see it's happening
right now you're doing it again
no it's just like it's something that's
hype like like i could i could
go down the road that i had
predetermined and then
i could think a week later like damn
maybe dr k had some [ __ ] to say like he
probably had some bars to drop
and i didn't like go for the bars
is it okay to not go for the bars
sometimes yes but if you can and it's
not that problematic why not
okay cool so if you want to go down the
road enough of them
oh [ __ ] lost my pen
yeah you do it new doctor k way to make
a lighthearted joke in the moment
no i mean i i seriously my fingers are
slippery
which is a you know a whole different
discussion but
um i'm supposed to ask you about
coombers at some point too
okay sure um speaking of making things
lighthearted
but so so tell me what i mean do you you
know were you always kind of the joker
yeah for sure class clown can you tell
me a little bit about that
um yeah you know i i remember
started third grade we had uh i think it
was called brambling
where you write for like 15 minutes
uninterrupted you're not allowed to not
write
you can write whatever and then at the
end of it you could volunteer to share
and i shared my parody of the book um
my brother sam is dead remember that one
it was about uh civil war
and i called it my brother slam is dead
and i had this hilarious joke where slam
his mother told him to take a shower and
wash the dishes like a mother would
and he and then he says like as a
narrator he's like and then i wash the
dishes and took a shower
at the same time and everybody thought
it was the funniest thing ever
and ever since then i've just been on a
high road i just ride that high
what is that high they all laughed
they thought it was funny it was a
classic good one
and how did that make you feel
10 out of 10. it was a banger
certified good one live in front of all
the people in my class
and my crush and the cool teacher
sounds amazing did i do the voice again
yeah
it was amazing it was good yeah um
and it sounds like you've been chasing
that high ever since
is that why you is that kind of how you
can you tell us how you got into
streaming
uh yeah i did comedy in college
and then i thought i should do something
with this after graduating and i did a
podcast with a friend
and he streamed it on twitch and um that
was slime as well and i was like oh you
know i could just maybe stream
while i try to find some comedy group in
la or whatever
and then i just did streaming and then
that worked out
cool well congratulations thank you can
you
can you tell me a little bit about um
what growing up was like
uh grew up in new hampshire
it was chill i had like a like a nice
house indoor pool
that's cool that's like a weird thing
that people don't have a lot
um dad died high school was great
3.0 i would say
yeah pretty good high school all in all
did you say your dad died yeah my dad
died my dad died
when i was 10. yeah but also 3.0
i was in choir honors wire
wow that's impressive
can i just think for a second go for it
go for it
varsity soccer how old were you when you
were into the 10th grade
uh no he died when i was 10 not in the
10th grade unless you're just wondering
sorry how old were you it when the the
joke story is from the third grade it
was uh
on hindsight i misremembered it's fifth
grade i believe actually
how old was your fifth grade
eight no wait
ten wait
i was 10 dr k see you did it again
oh [ __ ] yeah i was 10 years old
a detective voice do you remember
what else happened that year wait
my dad died that year wait okay i'm
i'm using a voice but i do think i
haven't wrecked
yeah i guess that does add up
sure you're onto something here i think
i mean maybe mm-hmm so it's okay
let's just sit for a second how are you
feeling right now ludwig
i feel good i'm trying to remember dates
uh because he died in march i can't
remember if it was before or after
the story but i don't i don't remember i
can't remember
can you tell me a little bit about what
growing up was like before your dad
passed away
uh chill i don't remember a lot which uh
is regrettable
but you know i was i was like 10 and now
i'm 25.
why do you regret it well you know i'd
like to remember
my father uh but i can't remember that
much from when i was 10
because i had smaller brain less formed
uh but it was good i remember we went on
a lot of vacations
to europe where the family lives so we'd
see family a lot
um school was pretty bomb
uh played a bunch of video games
wouldn't you play
i was the renowned worst gamer in my
friend group but i played a lot of
smash and uh
pokemon snap and kingdom hearts
wow cool um never really got into any of
those
really yeah well i've seen your show
in no offense dr k you're a bit of a
boomer i mean you're whipping out like
i feel like the references you whip out
in the games you're playing are
dated yeah they're a little bit older
even absolutely man you'll always be
like you guys ever play star quest
17 and it'd be like for like
windows 84 yeah so so you know it's
strange thing because i
feel the boomer inside me yeah i feel
like coming too
like it's it's it's interesting because
like when i see games now it
nowadays i think to myself like this
thought pops into my head
man games are so much better like
everyone talks about ff10 like you guys
need to go back and play ff4 and f6
yeah you know let me tell you i was just
watching right before this
uh one of the streamers i really like
play ff10 i'm like damn this game's
goaded the kids won't know these days
they're all playing persona now
yeah i need to give persona a shot i
want to give pokemon a shot too with my
kids but
it seems like pokemon sword and shields
suck
yeah i think pokemon kind of fell off
after the ds
when they went 3ds it's kind of but the
old ones hold up
like black black and white um
they're good cool so what we just did
there is something called coming up for
air
okay okay so sometimes when we talk
about things that are serious
we sometimes crack a joke or we talk
about games for a little bit and then we
kind of come up for air and now we're
going to go back in again
okay yeah i go for air a lot i don't
have a big
lung yeah
we'll see okay we'll see but yeah i
think so i think so
i think that's sort of i think you have
a bigger lung than you give yourself
credit for
okay yeah that's fair uh but i would say
you do come up for air a lot so let's
just try to
notice things about what we do right and
maybe we'll learn something
so you say that you kind of wish you had
more memories
because can you tell me a little bit
about that
yeah you know like like
dad dead boom i'm 15. remember a good
amount
only like a few years ago five years
later
20 in college can't really remember
like maybe like his face or something
you know it was like you know you forget
the voice the face and then you gotta go
to like pictures and stuff like
just like conjure it up and uh like the
smell just like things you'll forget
over time because um
it happens over time you forget
this sounds kind of weird but it almost
sounds to me like you're
you know he didn't die at the age of 10
it sounds to me like you're actually
like kind of losing him piece by piece
i think you do right i think that's kind
of how it
i think it's a a constant war when
someone dies to
keep them as much as you can in their
lives and you
can't because you will lose to time
every time
good job no i'm i'm very impressed by
you not coming up for air
because that's some heavy [ __ ] that's a
bar you're the one
you're the one dropping bars there bro
okay
that's it did you notice that like oh i
look i tried
it man i think coming up for air is good
for others as well so if i'm live with
you know 20k on the reg you know how it
is uh just came back i don't actually
i do those that come up for errors come
up for air dr k um
uh you know i think other people also
might appreciate that if they're not
trying to have
you know because i think the vibe of the
stream is expected to be a certain way
so
you come up a good amount then everybody
else gets to come up too
yep yeah
i wonder if the parasocial relationships
form when you don't come up for air
dude yeah yeah
yeah i feel like even coming on this
show could promote social relationships
if i'm being too
real sure and not
as much of a character yeah and then
they're like damn
it's so real i actually like them now
and then they give me their money
so they're like i love you and then
they're my dm's dr k
and and then how does that make you feel
a little bad can't respond all you guys
appreciate the money easy clap
um i'm gonna toss out a word do you feel
inadequate
i used to i think a good amount
i remember i used to stream like a year
ago and my viewership was like booming
and i'd have like a really good stream
like a banger like
10k people would be there and then i
wouldn't want to stream the next day
because i'd be like i'll never hit this
again like this is i've peaked this i've
done more than i can handle
and i would just i would i would not be
able to hit the go live button and i
would just lie down on my floor for a
while
but i kind of got over that um
i don't know why i can't exactly pin it
but i think i got over that
yeah so i think there's a lot to cover
do you want to you know stick with the
dad or you want to talk about the
parasocial
i'm so open i feel like you're my sherpa
in a way and i would
hope you can guide me i i'd happy to i'm
happy to be your sherpa
on this journey on a shit-covered
mountain
my dream um yeah so tell me what what do
you remember
i i know that things fade over time and
and that's sad
yeah but what do you remember about kind
of growing up like
like like more specific about is this
about anything
about yeah sure anything any memories
from when you're sure
uh remember a few from
it's funny the thing about memories in
that if you
look up pictures or videos you will form
like fake memories based off your like
nostalgic re-looking at it but i would
say the actual memories that stick out
are
i used to do a lot of shower races with
my dad
which was basically we would both start
the shower at the same time who could
finish first
probably not the best way to teach a kid
how to shower
on hindsight you know should take your
time behind the ears the whole works but
uh but those were fun um
i remember sleeping over friends houses
uh a bunch playing video games
and uh yeah there's there's a quit
there's a few memories
school can you tell me a little bit
about your mom
yeah uh my mom's dope she was a software
engineer
and she was let go because like the
company was
um it was it was hewlett-packard and
they were just like downsizing
um and then instead of looking for
another job in software engineering and
making bank
she just like went to school
got a business major then became a
teacher in french and in
uh spanish uh so she could um
like hang out with us because then i
think my dad died and she was like oh
you know i can't be at work until five
cause my kids get out of school at three
wow um and then she was solo mom
doing the shits killing it
and yeah and do you have siblings i have
a sister yeah
an older sister and
can you tell me a little bit about her
sure yeah she was angsty teen
you know on aim i take a peek she gets
mad she got that
journal that would be on like
infomercials that would lock to voice
activation
a bit of a klepto a bit of a trouble
child
great heart gotten a bunch of fights
with my mom
um yeah no that was that was my sister
are you guys close now we're pretty
close yeah we both live in la we see
each other occasionally we text a good
amount i think okay
cool let's see if we can get a
relationship now tell me
you know what can you tell me about your
dad or is that
hard yeah no i can tell you uh he was
uh he was a cool dad like uh you know
like not allowed to watch tv after
school because my mom would get mad but
the dad would be like because he worked
from home he was like
you know run it and then she comes home
and we have to like you know
go through the tom and jerry sequence to
clean up the house and stuff
uh and then you know he would he would
never narc
um so he's definitely cool dad wore
sperry's
because he was a big sailor from sweden
uh lived there most his life well yeah
wha were sperrys yeah the boating shoe
oh i don't know what that is you might
recognize them because like oh i guess
maybe not
it's a newer but it's like uh now it's
commonly worn by like frat boys and
stuff
it's sperry's and that one brand with
polos
okay uh but he was a sailor from sweden
and so that's why he wore it
and i was berries for a while after what
kind of
after what he died
what and what does that mean you wore
sperry's for a while after he died
like he died and i was like hey this is
our thing like this is the this is the
augren thing we wear sperry's in this
house
i'm going to be a sperry guy and i
rocked this berries
and the frat boys took it over and i
backed out
frat boys took that away from you they
took it away
they did i'd never they took it away
from me yeah
you didn't want to be like them no god
no
do you wear sperry's now no
no i wear flip-flops
comfortable i'm not i'm not hearing any
emotion around wearing sperry's now it's
just sort of like a
yeah i think i have made
very uh deliberate decisions
to move on from certain things
um that felt like i was attached to for
no reason
like um like i had like his whole
wardrobe
and i threw out a bunch of stuff and uh
and moved on from the sperry's and like
i had a belt that was his that i wore a
bunch
and i've whittled it down to uh to uh i
wear his ring
and i have his watch but i'm not wearing
the watch right now
so it sounds like you know you're not
only losing him in your mind you're sort
of like
losing you're like sort of letting go of
the possessions one by one
yes yeah because i i thought it was
unhealthy
what did you think was unhealthy about
it like
putting so much of an importance on
inanimate objects and feeling the need
to like
use them or wear them when like
if i were to look at it objectively like
boating shoes are not that convenient
for a man who's not on a boat
and his shirts are not that stylish
anymore
so you know it i can keep it in the
closet and that's fine and that's great
um
but i don't think it like it's not like
it helps me recall anything
and i don't think it is functional in my
day-to-day
sure where i feel the need to keep it
yeah
i think sometimes um you know you can
also kind of think of it as like growing
out of it
like i think there are times where you
know you may have needed those things
for a particular reason and and maybe
you just don't anymore
um sounds like a natural part of the
grief process to me
yeah i would i would agree and and how
did he
pass away if you don't mind me asking
alcoholic
uh and i forget my mom told me
like a couple years ago but the nitty
gritty is
probably not that fun to talk about
because it's like something
but basically it comes down to he was an
alcoholic [ __ ] up his insides
was refusing to go to the hospital
coughed up blood for a bit
and then uh and then just died
internal bleeding stuff like that i
think
wow that's kind of grim yeah
yeah you wanna i can we can come up for
air
i'm okay are you okay i'm good i'm good
um i mean did you understand what was
happening
yeah yeah i was 10 i do remember this
quite vividly
i was sleeping in my mom's room because
he was like
not having the best day he was sleeping
in the guest room
and uh at some point during the evening
my sister went to the neighbors because
she was like a bit like stressed out
like she gets really stressed and
then he went into the bathroom and then
my mom got up and i think he started
throwing up blood she called the cops
they came i went to the neighbors
and they came back the next day and it
was uh it was bad news
do you remember anything about what you
thought was happening or how you felt at
the time
uh i was pretty scared when i was in my
mom's room
and then i went to the neighbors and i
just kind of slept and chilled
and just tried to like wait and then
yeah and then they came back and i and i
got and i kind of got it
frame one cried i think things that died
for me before
so i kind of knew what death was i'm
sorry i always
what like like animals have died i think
oh is is my thing cut out where are we
good
no no no no i just understood you i
thought you said things have died for
you before
yeah like i think i understood the
concept of death i think we had had
a family cat die and and so i think i
had understood my mom had explained it
to me because one time i asked her i
said how many lives do we get
after playing like mario 64 and she's
like oh
like one and i was like damn that sucks
and she was like yeah
so i kind of knew going in that you get
the game over bowser screen
um on your first go so when
she was like he's dead i was like oh
that sucks
you know should have got 100 coins kind
of stupid of them but hmm
just a quick come up just a quick yeah i
know it's okay
um if i don't come up with you it's
because i'm trying to stay down
and and you'll if i come up with sure
we'll be up for a little while
i just can't farm too many sages i have
a quota
yep that's why we come up for air the
ultimate way to come up for air is a
dick joke
that's yeah to tie a dick joke into my
dad's death would be phenomenal
yeah i'll come up with one rigor mortis
who knows
right there look at that look at how
easy it is
look at how look at how buoyant your
mind is classic good one
yeah that's what you got to come up with
um
it's important to you to be funny isn't
it yeah it's my job now
yeah coming up is what you do for a
living
yeah i would agree um
you're very good at it you're very funny
i think uh
weaving serious topics while i guess
we'll phrase it coming up is uh
i think good because it allows you to
talk about more serious things with
people who might not want to
because it usually sucks yep it's it's
very very
um healthy actually so i think it's
interesting because one of the things we
realized uh
in the healthy gamer community
communities we're like starting to
actually like
get into comedians or it seems like a
lot of comedians seem to
really need a lot of mental health
support i think they're another
population that like
gets very very poorly served by the
mental health system
so it's a bizarre thing that we're sort
of noticing
um and i think that there is a lot of
like there's a lot of truth in comedy
right comedy helps us
sit with very very scary things yeah
more easily i i i know that you know
sometimes some of the
in a sense most insensitive jokes but
also some of the most
important jokes that we make or after
codes in the hospital
a code is um when you know like on these
like medical shows when they're doing
chest compressions and
they say clear and paddles and stuff
like that i think you'll hear the most
jokes like after that
really yeah okay it's just hard to sit
with like trying to keep someone alive
for 40 minutes and then
you know yeah so they die yeah
so you got to break it yep um
but you know did you understand that
your dad was an alcoholic when you were
growing
up yeah for sure
i think yeah how did you know that
he got arrested for a dui we lived very
close to the liquor store
uh maybe a mile away and i think he just
he went
he bought it six to 12 pack whatever
cracked one
and then they pulled him over in our
driveway actually arrested him took him
to jail
i don't think he was even drunk and then
he got his license suspended so
it was obvious because he would walk to
the liquor store
every day uh and like you know
like i was like eight nine but i know
where he's going you know because i also
called her the candy store because they
had candy there
but he was never going for candy doctor
kevin it was always for the alcohol
uh and kids had brought it up as well
and
oh kids that brought about what what is
that yeah i mean
this [ __ ] zack on the bus one
grade older
uh would sit in the back because that's
where the cool kids sit and
he was just like i forget exactly how it
started but he's like
he was just roasting me because my dad
didn't have a license and would
go buy alcohol and walk there and [ __ ]
like that
yeah that sounds do you remember how you
felt or how you responded
i think i got mad called him a pimple
butt
you should have seen him he was torn up
from that one
nice yeah well well played
um and do you know if your mom had
did your mom and dad ever talk about
their his drinking
yeah i mean they definitely had some
some fights about it she definitely
wanted him to not
drink because she was like you're gonna
die if you keep drinking
and he had periods where he would stop
because of that
um but then you know he's addicted so
he would eventually relapse and he
didn't really like professional help
because i think he thought it was like
maybe admitting a problem too much or
whatever so
and he just thought he had control over
it and uh i don't think he really did
now ludwig i would i would say that you
know
sometimes uh kids in your situation
end up being very very like angry
with their dad but what i'm hearing from
you
is that it's super matter of fact
yeah i don't think addiction's his fault
i think that was
like passed to him yeah do you blame him
no not really i think he could have gone
to the hospital
and he would have probably had a few
more years but
no i think he uh he did good as a dad i
feel he did a good job
for 10 years could have done it longer
admittedly but the 10 were good so you
know
who are you to complain i can't complain
i got a good tenant
kids who have a worse upbringing are
more deserving than you huh
to complain um yes
they are in fact yeah
people who haven't like so you know
other people with anxiety their
their deserve to come on but you know
a kid who loses his dad from alcohol and
watches his dad vomit blood
and um then dies you don't deserve to
come on
and get support
i would agree
agree with what that
at the end of the day if anything bad
happens in life
someone else had it worse and i think
that you can uh just look at the
positives
i'm gonna have to sit with that for a
second and also i'm gonna grab a tissue
is that okay
go for it just let me let me think about
my comeback
if he says pimple butt we're over
professionally and romantically
hmm
full disclosure i came up for her when
you were gone oh you did
yeah just full disclosure what'd i miss
it was
it's less funny if i tell you if you go
back and watch it you might have a laugh
okay
do you remember thinking when you were
young that there are people who are like
like you're actually pretty lucky
despite your dad passing away
that i was yeah i mean that you were
lucky to have him around as long as you
did and stuff like that
yeah for sure
so i mean i'm a yeah i was gonna say i
think in general i had a good
upbringing like you know in middle class
dad died but he had life insurance so
college paid mostly outside of like a
bit of student loan but true you know i
think that's that's pretty
pretty good that's a good life
mom bought me a car that's nice that's
easy
move to la you have a lot to be grateful
for yes
yes let me ask you something if you have
a lot to be grateful for does
it mean that you have
is it possible to be grateful for things
and ungrateful for things at the same
time or is it either or
it is but i think the energy spent
reflecting on what you're grateful for
is more valuable than what you aren't or
upset about
because that you cannot change and what
you're grateful for
is something that you can keep
and continue to grow and like you know
i think it's more valuable
i can get behind that
at the same time i disagree
look you know i can be 15 maul that you
know
my jonah had a dad until he was 17 and
my dad died at 10
or i can be like damn i got this sweet
car because my mom is nice
that's pog and i think that it's a
better head space to be in the second
world
i agree with that so there's there's
there's one thing there's one thing that
i would
switch in your words okay sure you can
be mauled at
whoever that is at 15 because they have
a dad or
you can be grateful for the the car
and this is where i would say replace
the ore with an end
but why be mauled
because you're only mauled at life which
you have no control over
getting mad at something i have no
control over seems like a fruitless
endeavor
let me think about that for a second
because i i think you're
right
what do you have control over
current life relationships
and um how do you have control over your
relationship what do you have control
over in your relationship
how i act in them
[Music]
uh and
i would say that's the biggest one yeah
how i act in relationships
how i show appreciation everything
perfect right so what do you have
control over in your stream
um everything really
if it even starts you have control over
your viewership
i in a way i would say yeah how so
i can choose what i do uh which will
influence it
i think everything i do will impact that
okay
okay hold on though so sure what i'm
hearing is that in your relationship you
have control over your actions
in the relationship you don't have
control over
qd's responses right that is true yeah
in streaming you don't really have
control over your viewership but you
have control over what you do
i think the comparison
of like because i get it like i don't
have control over other people's
responses i would say two things one you
can
like kind of predict based off of
like previous encounters what might be a
positive response
and i think that is even more viable in
streaming where data is
everywhere and i can very quickly
understand you know hey this will do
great so let's be a little bit precise
i have control over flushing the toilet
but i don't have control over whether
the poop goes down
yeah but it's gone down like almost
every time
sure but let's let's be precise okay
sure
what i have control over is whether the
toilet gets flush
that is true right i did i've never i
always thought i made the poop go down
but you're right i only just
flick the nozzle yep yep
and and so i i i ask you to kind of
revisit this idea of like okay so
you know what do you have control over
like you can't change it like you can't
change anything anyway
i think if i thought that way
i would not be a big streamer though
because if i thought i had that little
control i would never have tried
streaming because i would thought i
can't get people to come on stream
yeah so this is this is the really
challenging thing ludwig is i think you
i think you're doing great i don't think
you're someone who has all these
problems or things like that i i don't
mean to make a mountain out of a
molehill
um at the same time i think that there
are still like areas that all human
beings can grow
and i think the real challenge here is
that
what we have to what i think would help
you move forward in life which by the
way i think it's just
you know i i don't know if you if i had
asked you to start with death
do you think we like it's just weird
like the themes are just like
in your face from today right so first
of all
you toss out this comment about how
you're not deserving to be here
it's also kind of like i think you could
ask a thousand people on the street
you know you're you're grateful for
everything that you had in life which is
awesome but like i think
if you polled a thousand people and
they're like you know this kid had his
dad die from alcoholism at the age of 10
and he saw him vomiting up blood like
and he's grateful like is that you know
feels a little bit weird to me
and yeah i mean if you boil it down sure
yeah right so so you didn't even add in
the pog car
sure and a car makes it okay wow
like it was a dog car
i mean must have been yeah right to
outweigh
losing your dad at the age of 10. yeah
well i mean
jetta they do it right in germany i'll
tell you yeah
so so i and and like i don't and i think
what you're doing is
is healthy right so i think you're right
that like most people
learn that dwelling on the past and like
getting hung up on things that i can't
change is not like productive or healthy
and doesn't make me happy
i'm with you we've we can talk to or
have talked to on stream i've certainly
talked with people
not even patients just people who get
caught up in the past
and it's not healthy so i'm with you
there but i think that like the
challenge is that when we think about
you know growth there's the low-hanging
fruit
and then there's the high-hanging fruit
and i think where we
are is all the low-hanging fruit has
been taken care of like you've survived
you've thrived you've grown
it sounds like you're in a healthy
relationship sounds like you appreciate
your mom sounds like you know i haven't
asked you if you drink and stuff but
you know i don't think we need to but
you know i'm guessing that you
don't and that it isn't a problem for
you even though genetically you may be
predisposed
once a week you do a what a classy once
a week
what's a classy like a classy once a
week drink
what does that mean like you know just
like like a classy one
it's not like early enough and i'll just
do like once a week
just have my classy drinks and then move
on with the rest of my week
okay um and
yeah so like i was saying you realize
you railed you my bed
it's it's all good man um
but you i gotta i gotta get back on the
rails hold on a second
yeah so like low hanging fruit and high
hanging fruit right so i think this is
the challenge so if you look at like the
yogis would say that
the first problems you solve in your
mind are the easy ones
and the more the higher up you go the
more you level up
like it's almost like an rpg where you
need more xp to level up
and the issues become more and more
subtle and
i think you've adapted really well
you've bounced back really well you have
a lot of like really like you're an
incredibly resilient person
right you've learned how to look at the
positive instead of the negative
that's helped you like not wash away
with like the negativity that you deal
with
it probably has a lot to do with like
how successful you are on twitch because
your mind is it's really healthy it's
like your mind has learned how to shift
away from the negative and look to the
positive
the challenge is that looking at the
positive instead of the negative
doesn't actually make the negative go
away
yeah and and this is where you know if
you really i think there's this like
there's a and i think we'll get to this
because you already said we're gonna
talk about that today
so so you know i i i mean i wonder if
that has anything to do with
um oh god you know whether there's
whether it's one life and then game over
or you can collect coins and
and you know i wonder if there's some
part of you that's like
curious about like where is your dad now
yeah yeah probably
i think he thought he was very uh
agnostic he was like you know
it'll be nothingness type of guy
sucks for him if that's the case why is
that bad
it doesn't seem very fun
what you want to talk about that
let's do it i wanted to coming in what
did you want to talk about
uh help me understand what you want to
understand about death
okay so i had this moment in
disneyland i think before my dad died i
was like nine
um where i had a dream and then the
dream
was life after death and but my dream
was nothing
and then i woke up with a panic attack
and then i think i've been a little
monka w on death ever
since what does monka w on death mean
scared
what are you afraid of when it comes to
that
if i'm right
um then
life is so much better
than death yeah and death is so much
longer
than life
okay so ludwig we can
do this two ways okay i can just tell
you
oh yeah or we can like you know
ask you questions and sort of like or we
could just explain how death works
hey i prima strategy guided every game
as a kid i am unoffended if you just
tell me the answers
okay so let's talk about death
so let me think about how to do this
where do you start
man a little bit
prepared sure should i ask questions
sure you you can but i i may just get
there if i i'm just trying to figure out
the sequence of things but
go ahead and ask a question oh okay dr k
what happens after you die
it's a good question let me think about
it
so i think to understand what happens
after you die you have to start by
understanding like
what is like how does the how does like
the universe work
okay so i'm gonna start actually with a
story
so i was um i was working uh at
um this place called massachusetts
general hospital and if you grew up in
new hampshire sometimes you know we
would get people from new hampshire
um and you know i'm a psychiatrist so i
was doing my
psychiatry consult rotation which means
that you work in the general part of the
hospital you don't work on the psychoard
and so different teams will call you so
like we would manage alcohol
so like sometimes you know someone would
come in for like a knee replacement
and then they would start going into
alcohol withdrawal so we would like help
people manage alcohol withdrawal and i
got a call from
the the folks in the neuro icu okay so
this is the neurological part of the
hospital
intensive care unit and so
um there was a patient who had gotten
into a motor vehicle accident was in a
coma for two months
and then was out and then so anytime you
consult a service you have to have like
a question
so you can't just like call a
cardiologist and be like
we need help you have to call a
cardiologist and you have to say
hey we did an ekg which is something
that checks your heart rhythm and the
ekg looks weird
we don't know what to do with it can you
come help us out so the consult question
for us as psychiatrists says the patient
cries when no one is looking
and so they're like we're not really
sure like what's going on
like he cries when no one's looking and
so i'm like all right cool so we get a
lot of weird questions because a lot of
people don't have the vocabulary to like
understand
what you know how to frame things for
a for psychiatrist so i was like okay
cool so i go and i talk to the guy
and you know i asked the team i'm like
you know what you know what's going on
like what's his prognosis and they're
like oh he's gonna like he's gonna need
to do probably three months of physical
therapy
he'll make a full recovery his family is
thrilled
they come in every day he's got two
young boys
um you know like they're all super happy
like they were super worried for a while
he seems to be happy that he's with them
okay like what's going on with his job
and they're like i don't know because we
don't ask those kinds of questions i'm
like okay so like maybe he's upset about
you know something so i go and i ask him
and i screen him for depression
and the screen is negative i ask him are
you sad and he's like no
like what's your understanding of like
what's happening
like or you know you're gonna be
disabled and he's like no i'm not gonna
be disabled
how are things with your wife things are
great she's super happy they were
worried for a while i'm glad
i'm going to be okay if she's going to
glad she's good being you know
everything's going to be okay so like no
divorce or anything like that
you know you guys like having marital
trouble he's like no
he's like okay so maybe it's the job
right like maybe his dude's been in a
coma for two months so he's like broke
financially and like that's why he's
depressed
it's like no my boss is super
understanding i have really good health
insurance like you know i'll go back to
work
like you know my co-workers have come to
visit me like it's actually fine i'm
just like really confused and i'm like
you know what's going on with this guy
and so i
screen's negative for depression i'm
just not sure like i don't understand
right
and so then like i check on him every
day because that's what we've been
assigned to him and i go to the team and
they're like what's wrong with him have
you fixed him yet and i'm like no i
don't know what's wrong with him
and then you know i come back the next
day and i like i'm like how's the you
know how's the patient doing he's like
yeah he's still like cries when no one's
looking
i was like what the [ __ ] am i supposed
to do about that and they're like i
don't know what you're the [ __ ]
psychiatrist you figure it out
have him stop crying he's like really
like bothering like the nurses are super
worried
and so i check on him day after day
after day asking you know you think
about killing yourself are you suicidal
are you depressed are you anxious are
you
hearing voices you know he's like no no
no everything's fine i'm happy i have a
lot to be grateful for
a lot of gratitude i've got a nice job
i've got healthy
family kids you know i could have been
disabled i could have been brain damaged
i could have been dead and those things
are true
so finally like on day four day five i'm
working this weekend
and it's a [ __ ] saturday and i'm
[ __ ] pissed because it's a saturday
i'm
at the hospital come see this guy every
single day then i'm like dude so i just
asked him i'm like so you don't seem
depressed you say everything is fine
why do the nurses keep on writing my ass
about you crying when no one's looking
just that i was like why do you cry when
no one's looking [ __ ] tell me
and so he's conceived that i'm
frustrated and this is you know it's
actually a little bit of a calculated
play but i
you know i've come and i built a rapport
with him and i asked him just tell me
like what's going on why do you cry
and he says doc if i tell you you're
going to think i'm crazy
and and then i say okay i mean
that's i mean i may think you're crazy
but i'd love to hear
and he says like when i was in a coma
like i lived another life
and like i have memories just like from
this life
and i was married and i had two little
girls and like i was happy in that life
i was
you know he was like some kind of
engineer or something like he remembers
like
he remembers all of these things and
he's like the reason i cry is because i
realize like i'm never going to see my
girls again
and i mean what do you mean you're never
going to see your girls i thought you
had two sons and he's like yeah i have
boys in this life but i like i had girls
and like
i loved them i was there when they were
born i was there when you know my
daughter got her first period because
my wife was like traveling for work and
like i had to go pick up tampons and
like i have all of these like
memories and and what i realized is like
the dude is like he's like
grieving a life that existed within his
coma
and it's really wild because if you
actually talk to people who are
in comas this is a relatively common
experience
that what they experience in the coma
feels real
what do you think about that uh sounds
like some inception [ __ ] it is some
inception [ __ ]
yeah um
yeah i don't know it sounds
it sounds interesting
and i feel like
there's some explanation
in your brain right neurons firing yeah
yeah some nerdy scientists who can use
words to explain that but
yeah so that's where you know it's
interesting because
science so you know when we look at
scientific evidence
there's no evidence of any kind of thing
in the afterlife
or anything like that right yeah so
you've got like religions who believe in
heaven and hell and whatnot
but the really interesting thing like
the the method that i kind of prescribe
to is is a couple of things first is
that
you have to understand the nature of
like experience
mind consciousness and existence and
what i mean by that is like
how do you know ludwig that you were
alive
uh cause i because i am
okay so how do you know that you are
because i interact with a human world in
a
i feel like a way that
is tangible and vivid enough that it
can't be fabricated
okay hold on a second so let's let's get
into tangible and vivid
what about the world is tangible
and what about the world is vivid what
do you mean by those words
well like everything you know like i
like i can i can like i can pick up a
crush
cup and crush it you know how do you
know that the cup is real
because it feels real okay it looks real
yep okay so so if we think about it
yep so so if we really think about it
what you're saying is that you're using
your sense organs
to collect data from the outside world
yeah but
ultimately it is your feeling of those
things that determines existence
yes right so this is kind of interesting
because like let's say i'm gonna you
know ask you i hope this is a safe
question
do you love cutie yeah how do you know
feel good when so it's feelings right so
like this is
this is really important to understand
so there's a barrier
between the outside world and the inner
world and all of our understanding of
what happens in the outside world is
actually through the inner world
it is your experience of things that
that determines
that is the foundation of what you
understand to be real
okay right and and this is where like
this is um
you know descartes sort of said cogito
ergosome i think therefore i am
yeah and what descartes sort of noticed
is that like even if i'm hallucinating
there has to be something that is
experiencing just yarn bro it's cool
just um there has to be there has to be
something that is
still being tricked right even in a
hallucination
even if the outside world is real there
has to be something that is observing
the hallucination
so something has to exist yeah
and the yogis determined the same thing
and what they realized is that actually
like if you look at dreams and reality
there's actually no difference between a
dream and reality
because in the dream it feels just as
real as reality does
okay right so so then it
yeah what about like the laws
like i feel like science makes
everything make sense like it's real if
that makes sense like
there are laws and rules and a system
and it's and everything falls in line
quite well
and we can predict the mars will be here
because it
does that and i feel like in dream you
know
i i'm running away from big crab man and
like it feels real in the moment but
like a a dream has an internal
consistency
okay why do we wait the internal
consistency of waking more than the
internal consistency of dreaming
because if you really think about it in
the dream you're not like
there's no such thing as internal
there's like giant walking crab men
you do sometimes though right like
occasionally the dream will be so
preposterous that you'll like you'll be
like
and wake up okay now we're getting
somewhere wait was it a trap
okay if by trap mean you've made a very
important discovery then yes
okay right so so this is where there's a
set of meta
so what happens in that moment in the
dream
usually i wake up
yeah so tell me about your experience
just say as much as you can
sure yeah i remember i had dreams a lot
as a kid that a samurai would come to my
house
and i would wake up in my house and i
saw the samurai through the window
bad samurai the samurai was coming to
kill my mother
and i i couldn't lock the doors the
samurai would always break through
and then and then would get go into my
mom's room
and and i was like [ __ ] this guy is
owning me because it happened so many
times
and then a couple times the samurai came
through
and then i would i would i would be like
you know i would try to notice something
specific
about the samurai that looked goofy
because
and i would be like that's samurai i was
wearing no shoes or something then i'd
be like that's weird
and then i would and then i would wake
up
okay so you would find some internal
consistent inconsistency in the dream
yeah you would wake up yeah right
let me think about how to
so this is i'll just sort of try to toss
something i'm going to toss out a
hypothesis okay
so the first thing to understand is that
like with the the experience of things
in the dream
is just as real as the experience of
things in reality
yeah the fear that you feel in a dream
is just as real
you know if you wet your pants in a
dream it's it feels the same
yeah the interesting thing though is i
thought i peed myself today
can't remember my dream but i woke up
and i was like i [ __ ] peed myself
and there's no pee on me so i was good
yeah yeah so
so it and then similarly like if we
think about it like if if you
you know went to bed with heartburn in
reality
in the dream the heartburn disappears
right so like there are conditions from
reality that disappear in dreams
and their conditions and dreams that
disappear from reality
yeah and we tend to wait
reality but really we're not waiting
reality we're just
waiting wherever our mind is at the
moment as real
yeah okay so then the question becomes
how do you do this thing of snapping out
of it
and what what the yogis sort of realize
is that that there is
there is actually something that is
outside of your mind so this is where
like the next step is that they realize
that
the observer and the observer
the in the object of observation can
never be the same
so when you look at your face in a
mirror what are you looking at
are you looking at yourself
yes no uplift
no you're not looking at yourself what
are you actually looking at what is
what absolutely you're looking at an
image
right right so you're looking at
something outside of you so the eyes
cannot observe themselves you can never
see your eyes
what do you think about that i
get it conceptually but i still feel
like i know my eye
like if oh if i pulled out my eye
i would know that's my eye have you ever
seen your eye before
only through reflections good right so
so i don't doubt that you know what your
eye is
and now we're getting into sort of the
nature of knowledge you know what your
eye is because you have an
experience of your eye but you have
never seen your
eye you've seen pictures of your eye
you've seen reflections of your eye
you've seen images of your eye
completely agree but you've never seen
your
eye yeah so the yogi sort of realized
like this is kind of weird because if i
can observe my
thoughts then my there must be something
outside of me that is not my mind
and what i would say is that in the
dream so we're going to call that thing
consciousness
okay and i would say in the dream
you become conscious that the mind in
this reality is not real
and it is that rising of consciousness
above the mind which experiences
thoughts and fears
and predictions and analysis and tries
to control the
reactions of others that all happens
within the mind and then the
consciousness realizes they're like
oh [ __ ] this is this is weird
yeah and then you snap out of it okay so
is this also like
because i used to lucid dream as a kid
is the ability to live in your mind
understanding it's something your mind
created similar then too
sure we'll get there okay so i'm not
surprised that you lucid dreams so
there's a very interesting
garment to this entire conversation
about is it worth it
karma karma okay okay so
uh because i i think i'm going to teach
you a meditation technique which which i
think is
works better for people who are capable
of lucid dreaming
okay because lucid dreaming is sort of
the first step that allows you to
separate consciousness from mind
essentially what i'm going to try to
teach you is how to lose a dream while
you're awake
okay that'd be hard i've not done it in
like 15 years
so so this is where like the yogis
ultimately what they concluded so
if you succeed at pulling your
consciousness out of your mind
that is what we call samadhi or
temporary enlightenment
and what happens to people who become
enlightened is they begin to realize
that there literally is no difference
between
dream and reality
now people may think that that means
that what you do becomes
irrelevant but we'll get to that in a
second it's not actually true
okay um it actually becomes even more
relevant
and but essentially like so the nature
of reality is that like there's this
thing called
consciousness so now i'll just explain a
couple of other things so the yogis
ultimately came to the conclusion
that so they did these practices where
they essentially like lucid dreamed in
reality
and they did a lot of thorough studies
their particular techniques which are
funny because the techniques around
dreaming and the techniques around death
are very closely related
so they're actually like a stepwise if
you really want to understand
death you have to start with techniques
around dreaming
and it's all part of like it's bizarre
that you're a lucid dreamer you're
interested in learning about death and
like we're going to teach you about that
um so this is what they ultimately
concluded that reality the basic unit of
existence
is consciousness that when consciousness
oscillates at a particular wavelength i
know this is going to sound
super hokey you know it doesn't need to
make sense because ultimately all this
is experiential
once you experience this then you'll
understand it it's like i'm trying to
explain to you
you know what what love is and like
you're not gonna understand it until you
experience it
yeah so based on some of their
explorations and i'll teach you one
practice today the conclusions that they
came to is that
consciousness is the basic unit of
existence when consciousness
coalesces it forms energy and when
energy coalesces
it forms matter so in a small amount of
matter there's an exponential amount of
energy and when there's in a small
amount of energy there's an exponential
amount of consciousness
and what is this thing consciousness
it's kind of hard to describe but the
best experience that you're going to get
is it's your awareness that exists
outside of mind
okay yeah so then
we sort of start to get to death and
it's like so what is death so death is
sort of the annihilation of body and
mind but the yogis
actually claim that the consciousness
still persists like so matter and energy
cannot be destroyed right like
nothing in this world can truly be
destroyed yeah that's true
it just changes so then the question
becomes like
okay so your matter changes into fish
food your body is made of stardust
that we're fine with energy cannot be
created and destroyed
but what about consciousness now this is
where there's like a very important
deviation between west and east because
west says that consciousness is simply
a manifestation of neurons firing
but i don't know how to explain this but
like it's fundamentally wrong because
like
an experience is not an experience is
qualitatively different
from matter and is it qualitatively
different from energy
does that make sense yeah like you do
there
they might fire the same but they can be
different no
it's like it's exists on a different
like so you know matter and energy are
fundamentally different right
yes is experi is experiencing something
yeah matter
i would think not right and is
experiencing something energy
i would think not maybe like energy of
me burning my brain cells but
no no but that's all matter right so
what i'm saying is that fundamentally
these buckets
are like different stuff the stuff of
experience
sure there's a neurological correlate
like i don't
doubt that right so for example when i
drink this water
i have taste buds on my tongue that will
detect certain chemicals
those chemicals will route to my
gustatory cortex
and my gustatory cortex will sort of
route to my gustatory association cortex
and will tell me this water is good yeah
but
even though that neurological pathway
happens
it doesn't capture the actual experience
of water
yeah okay so you can study the
neuroscience of fear as much as you want
to
it's not going to teach you what feeling
afraid is like
yeah okay so the yogis sort of concluded
that like
there are these three buckets experience
is its own bucket
and this is where things get really
interesting because still in a dream
you experience so they actually
concluded that dreams and reality are
actually like no different
that all of and so when we talk about
enlightenment
one of the things that people say is you
sort of like wake up
and that's when you become enlightened
and that may sound like super mystical
but we actually do this [ __ ]
all the time where like you kind of talk
about getting caught up and stuff right
so you say that you used to feel
inadequate
you would lie down on the floor and your
mind would be telling you all sorts
of things and then i think at some point
you woke up
and you stopped doing that and you're
more at peace because you kind of just
woke up and if someone were to ask you
ludwig how do i stop caring about my
viewers
and you'd be like i don't know and
they're like how did you do it and you
were like
i laid down for a while the thoughts
were in my head
i tortured myself and then it just kind
of stopped one day
and then they they go and they lay down
and they're like i'm being tortured
ludwig how do i stop and you're like
i don't know it just kind of happened
that is an example
of you becoming more conscious
okay you're less trapped within your
mind it's just like you snap
out of the dream and then you awake to
reality you snap out of that mental
pattern you're like
i really can't do anything about it i'm
just gonna make the [ __ ] content that
i want to
i'm just gonna control whatever i can
which is myself it's like does that make
sense you become more conscious
it's also like we call this like taking
a step back
right where sometimes you get so tangled
up in something
and then you learn how to take a step
back and if we think about what you did
in the dream
you took a step back from the dream and
it shattered the dream
and so what the yogis say is that this
is something that can be learned it is a
skill
the process of learning to stay take a
step back
makes you more conscious results in more
peace
and tranquility results in more control
over your mind
and moves you one step towards something
that they call divinity which is like
the ultimate realization
that it's like taking the complete step
back
yeah with me you can only do that
you can just do that whenever is like
this complete step back
sort of yeah or arguably you've already
done it
you just don't realize it i have i have
one
hole that i want to talk about real
quick yeah
people old people are my whole why are
old people your whole
because they get we
get like dumber and when you're older
your brain starts to i feel like
deteriorate a bit
and it can be because of you know
whatever
uh malady you've gone through but you
know like the older you get like when
you're like
95 sometimes your brain starts to like
you know get a little less sharp but
wouldn't the conscious only get stronger
why would the consciousness get stronger
because it's experienced more and it's
not weighted to
bodily problems
let me think about that so you're saying
that
since there is a brain that decays and
older people appear to be less conscious
the more their brain decays wouldn't
that imply that consciousness is born of
the brain
yes
yes you are correct
bro the yogi should have brought me in
what now so that's where i would
i don't know whether consciousness
i the short answer is that's something i
actually don't know so the only way to
really understand that
i think it's actually still holds up but
really the true way to understand that
is to have
a mental decay and see if you can
preserve a sense of consciousness
yeah because i guess we only know that
based off how we perceive them to act
but maybe their brain is
chilling yep so so you may just you just
may be aware and this happens sometimes
right where like you're observing your
mind going wild
like you'll see this a lot in people
have panic attacks
where they recognize that their mind is
going crazy and there's a part of them
that's like holy [ __ ]
my mind is wild i can't control it at
all it happens
sometimes if i take an edible you so you
can still
so so but then the question is someone
on the outside
even though your awareness of your mind
and your consciousness may be intact
someone on the outside would say you're
impaired
i it's not that they outwardly say it
but i'm like that's what the perception
would be
yes yes right so so like and i think so
then the question becomes does your
quality of so
actually you can do this experiment so
this is where ultimately ludwig like
it's not going to be logic that pokes a
hole in this
the only way you can ever poke a hole in
this is to experience something
come to me and then you're not going to
poke a hole you're going to tell me
you are wrong because then you will have
an experience of it so this is what i
would say
first of all understand that the the
quality of consciousness
and then see if the quality of
consciousness alters
through alterations in your
neurochemistry
and this is where like one of my
favorite experiences is meditating while
drunk
because my experience has actually been
that the consciousness remains exactly
the same
it is simply the mind and the body which
change
yeah and actually the more that i think
about it
that actually what your suggestion is
probably actually gives us better
evidence
for what i'm saying which is that mind
and body are actually fundamentally
different from consciousness
i'm following i have never thought about
that but it is
true that i have reflected on how
i am acting which yeah yeah that's
philosophically deep for my brain i
think so forget about philosophy this is
not about philosophy this is about
experience
okay so the question is like close your
eyes right now
okay and notice yes okay [ __ ] okay
notice your thoughts
and notice that there's a noticing
capacity and then there are thoughts
sure right and so now like the next time
you take an edible i'm not saying that
you should use drugs but if you use
drugs yeah try to see
what the difference between those two
things is and see what it is that has
changed within you
yes and and this is where what you'll
really discover is like this gets like
super deep into [ __ ] like the self right
what is it that's you
you're ludwig you have facial hair right
now
i do i haven't shaved and there was a
ludwig that existed before you had
facial hair
is that still ludwig
yes so how do you know who ludwig is
because it's not your physical form if
you lost a hand would you still be
ludwig
i think it's uh
how i interact with the world
based off of my previous experiences
okay so this is stuff that you should
explore but essentially what the yogis
concluded is that you think about
anything that you use to define ludwig
including your name
and that's not really who you are yeah
because you could say ludwig is a twitch
streamer and but you were
ludwig before you were a twitch streamer
you're gonna be ludwig after your twitch
streamer
yeah ludwig is single like so if we look
at in cells like in cells identify
with the concept of being in cell and
then one day they get a girlfriend like
what happens do they
are they shattered so this thing that we
call identity this is a hamkar ego the i
feeling
or identity is all false and the yogis
realize that the only thing that truly
exists
is this consciousness that your mind
changes your emotions change
your bodies change your status and life
changes and therefore
all of these things cannot be real so
matter can change but at the end of the
day there's like a finite amount of
matter in the universe there's a finite
amount of energy in the universe and
there's a finite amount of this third
thing called consciousness
and the essence of who you are still
exists
no matter what kind of change you go
through
and so now we get to death because what
happens to that essence
when you die
is death a physical thing
is it a mental thing both right
sure is it a thing of but what we're
saying is that there's a consciousness
there is a ludwig essence yeah that
[Music]
transcends your body and your mind
because your body and your mind change
all the time but there's a certain
constant blood weakness
and that is your consciousness yeah so
what the yogis would claim
actually and this claim is based on
practice
so what they claim is that that
ludwigness
is like always going to be there just
like
matter is always going to be there and
energy is always going to be there
it can change form but there is a
certain amount of
permanence of stuff in the universe
which is actually like scientifically
supported right so
like we know that matter and energy
can't be destroyed and so now the real
question is is this
do we have scientific evidence of this
third thing and the short answer is
not really but maybe and this is where
you get into hokey stuff around quantum
mechanics which
one of my friends a lot of people like
draw parallels between like yoga and
like these
eastern mystics and quantum mechanics
and i have a friend who's a quantum
physicist who's like
that shit's [ __ ] quantum mechanics
is about math it's not about like yoga
hippies saying that like
you know whatever we can get into that
if you want to so now going back to your
original question of like what happens
after death
and why do you think this question is
important to you
because i'm gonna die and everyone i
know will
so you know i'd like to know like if a
friend moves to europe i'd like to know
if they're okay and they're doing well
is it about your dad for sure
yeah right yeah so you want to know
everything i mean every everybody right
yes everyone but i think for you like
let's admit it and i think your mind
deviates away from this right because
your mind focuses on the positive
yeah but you want to know if your dad is
doing okay yeah
that's it right yeah sure all this other
[ __ ] is philosophical
that's the way that your mind cloaks
something negative
in something positive if you don't look
at the badness and like you want to know
like is my dad doing okay and it's okay
to
ask that right this is where now we get
to the subtle layers of where you need
to grow
it's okay to sit with that thought and
like not
know you don't have to think about your
friends and what's gonna happen to you
it's okay to like
not know and sit with that negativity it
doesn't mean that you're molding and
this is where
molding is within the mind the more you
become conscious and now we come full
circle
because what i'm saying is that as you
gain in consciousness
you don't need to wait positive greater
than negative
everything is what it is right so like
you used to be
trapped in this idea of like oh my god
i'm not gonna get enough viewers i'm not
gonna get enough viewers
nothing changed when you became more
conscious
you were just like i just can't control
that [ __ ] whatever i'll get viewers i
won't get viewers
i know analytics i've done my homework
i've studied for the test i can't
control where i
whether i get an a but i can be
confident in the work that i have done
yeah i like that analogy right
and that's that's consciousness so then
suddenly if i had asked ludwig before
your realization and after
your realization ludwig
hold on let me think about this i just
lost it because it's trying to tie so
many
threads together
[ __ ] i had something oh yeah so
so prior to your realization negativity
meant more to you even though your
situation doesn't change
your mind was like more like nothing
changed after your realization right
like
all of the bleak things that you were
worried about are still exactly the same
does that make sense yeah that's true
and so
the negativity was born of your mind it
wasn't actually born of reality and when
you become more conscious
that negativity that all of the all of
those things that you were struggling
with were just as true
although they feel less negative you
with me
yeah i'm with you and so as
consciousness grows the difference
between positivity and negativity starts
to shrink
and now we get to where you need to grow
because your mind focuses on the
positive instead of focusing on the
negative
which is absolutely adaptive the next
step
is to recognize that you don't need to
do that anymore because there's no
difference
right [ __ ] happens so be it i don't have
to look away from it
yeah yeah i feel that
sometimes i do think about the negative
sometimes then though when i think about
the negative i feel like i'm thinking
about it in a performative way like i
need to think about this
yep which is also a weird experience
um like even like just by myself so
yeah so that's why it there's a lot of
reasons why
it feels weird to think about the
negative i think
yep and so the key thing is going to be
that you don't
as you grow in consciousness you don't
need to focus on the positive anymore
okay and you can sit with both things
you can be grateful that you got a car
but for [ __ ] sake man
your dad died when you were 10 yeah and
you're allowed to be upset about that
like what the [ __ ]
yeah right you're allowed to like you're
entitled to a little bit of like
sag and pity and compassion from other
people
and it doesn't change the two are
completely unrelated like
like how the [ __ ] just look at that it's
absurd that your mind has an equation
where the death of your dad in a car or
like
one to one it's more one to one just the
fact that your mind even associates
those two things is like [ __ ] dumb
okay sure okay right yeah that's
not wrong and so that's that's how
you've that's how you've grown and
that's how you've adapted and it's like
awesome that you have gratitude for life
it's awesome that you're compassionate
it's awesome that you put other people
first
it's awesome that you try to make people
laugh
and are you a positive person yes but
being a positive person doesn't mean
that you're not entitled to like some
amount of grief
and some amount of like that sucks for
me
yeah right and so like learning to sit
with it is gonna happen the more like so
the more you try to learn how to sit
with it the more conscious you will
become
the more conscious you become the more
you will be able to sit with it
okay so the advantage of sitting with
negative thoughts and emotions
is that i'll become more conscious
ideally yes
because sitting with it is not reacting
to it the even the phrase sitting with
it implies that the consciousness is
there
so the opposite of sitting with it is
getting wrapped up in it
and if you talk about getting wrapped up
in it then we're kind of stuck where
we're
walking around in the fogginess of our
mind where our mind is telling us all
kinds of things and we think that and
this is wild
just think about this for a second you
think your thoughts are true
yeah which is the dumbest [ __ ] thing
in the world because like what is a
thought
chatting uh yeah that's a good point
that's a good right
but when we get caught up in our mind
it's like i can think about
you know i'm gonna make a paladin who's
a half orc half unicorn that's a [ __ ]
thought it has no bearing on reality
yeah like that's gonna be my next dd
character
you've thought it up already it doesn't
make it real
like it's just thought yes
i yeah i've always thought i guess it's
not real until it's actualized
you know yeah but then we get down to
the whole rack of the road of dreams and
[ __ ] right so then like ultimately yeah
you know yeah so is that is a dream real
because you certainly experience it
so if dreams didn't exist for sure
nothing happens after we die
because if dreams didn't exist we'd have
no qualitative evidence
that anything but nothing
is uh certain after death right like i
feel like dreams are the one
wrench in the science community's
beliefs
on death no because the science
community's beliefs on death will just
be that dreams are just figments of the
like they're very materialistic in their
view yeah
they just say that like dreams are a
creation of the brain
whereas the way that i talk about it is
like just because you see the sign
of something reflected in something else
does not mean that that is all there is
so what i mean by that is let's say i
have a sheet hanging in the wind
and all i see is the movement of the
sheet and therefore i conclude that the
wind doesn't exist and all that exists
is the sheet
because it's all that i observe it's the
only thing that i can see it's the only
thing that i can touch
but the wind exists outside of the sheet
and ripples into the physical world on
the sheet
so in the same way just because the
brain is a physical ripple
of experience doesn't mean that the
brain is the only thing that exists
yes i don't know if that's going to make
sense or not i think that analogy caught
on for me yeah
yeah right so it's just the brain is
simply like the physical reflection
of certain things that happen and we're
falling into a really tricky trap
because just because we can observe the
brain and we can't
actually it's not a tricky trap it's
just how science works we just don't
have any direct ways to observe
consciousness yet
and so all we can see is the brain so
that's all we think exists
do you think that's okay though that we
don't sure i think it's the way that
science works
right so this has been around huh
they've been around like no one's done
it you know what i mean like observed it
in a
yeah so so that gets into the problem of
the observed and the observe
that the observer and the observed can't
be the same thing
yeah right so this is where this is
where the hokie quantum mechanics stuff
kind of comes in because some people
believe like there's this thought
experiment called schrodinger's cat are
you familiar with that
yeah yeah of course so like the thing
with schrodinger's cat is that
reality doesn't actually exist reality
is just sort of this weird wave form of
probabilities
and that matter is like coalesces into
reality through the act of observation
which is [ __ ] wild because the yogis
for thousands of years
have been saying that the most
fundamental thing that exists is the act
of observation
yeah right and so this is where the the
counter argument to that if you're a
physics is you can say whatever you want
to with real language
but unless there's math to back it up
you don't know what the [ __ ] you're
talking about
which is you know fair yeah
has a yogi or anyone ever gone
in to the wake up mode um enlightenment
and then just and then just
never came back to their body because i
feel like that
would be a a good observation
of it being real does that make sense he
has not come back to their body but then
how would you know then if they had
gained enlightenment because then it was
it was like they self-actualized leaving
the body like if i said
hey i'm a dip now i'm going to let my
brain leave
and then my body never comes back and i
called my own shots
yeah so so this is the short answer is
yes
lots of people but i sort of have
skepticism over that
so a lot what a lot of people will so
this is where like people in
religious traditions ramakrishna you can
look him up on wikipedia
it's just the first person that comes to
my mind who sort of did this and he's
like i'm a peace out now
i'm done you call this shot yeah and
then everyone was around and then he
just never came back
yep that's insane i think it happens a
lot so this is also where i think what
happens is religious traditions
say that that's what their spiritual
master does when they just die
yeah okay so i'm a skeptic by by nature
so ultimately ludwig so that has people
have called their shots absolutely
ultimately this is what i'm going to
tell you if you want to understand what
happens with death
step number one is like just experience
it
and i don't mean commit suicide so i
don't think you should commit suicide
but what what i what i mean by that is
like there are certain meditations that
you can do
to like recall your past lives and so
that [ __ ] is just it's hard to describe
but it's just
wild it's like the best thing that i can
that's what i can use wonderful so
basically you have
memories of your past right yeah
so so like there's some meditation
techniques that you can do where you
just like
have memories of your past except
they're just not
this life yeah it's like you remember
like this thing that you used to do with
your dad where you guys used to do the
shower race
yeah it's like you know you just have a
memory where like you and your dad used
to like
you know put horse horseshoes on a horse
and you're like oh [ __ ] i was a girl
back then and i just it's just
it's the same quality of memory and then
you're like whoa that's [ __ ] weird i
have
this whole like pile of memories sitting
in my hard drive
that i just don't that now i remember
even though
and it just it's weird it like really
causes you to question because
you've got this whole consistent memory
bank but it's just not from this life
and then like then how do you reconcile
that
do you call it fantasy but it feels so
consistent
and it's so like longitudinal
and and this is where like i've seen
this in [ __ ] weird ways okay so like
i had this one patient who had like
really bad ptsd except
she had never had a trauma she went to
like a bunch of psychiatrists
and this is weird like i i'm i'm the
first one to say like i don't know what
the [ __ ] to make of this
except it's happened she went to a lot
of psychiatrists and wound up with me
because
you know she was interested in holistic
psychiatry like meditation oh my god
so we like did that [ __ ] for a while and
it wasn't really helping and then like
i kind of asked her i was like you know
so it seems like you've got all the
features of ptsd
but like there's no trauma like we dug
and dug and dug and dug and dug
couldn't find any trauma in her life and
it's like what the [ __ ] so then one day
we were just like kind of talking i was
like
did you get traumatized in a past life
and she was like yes
and i was like tell me about that and
then she just started telling me all
this [ __ ]
that didn't happen to her and i [ __ ] you
not she got sexually abused by a cult
leader in a past life
and then like the second we figured that
out i know it sounds weird it's [ __ ]
weird it didn't happen to her it's not
real
but from a clinical perspective once we
did therapy over that trauma
she got better and as a scientist i have
no idea
how to understand that yeah
so this is like the best i can come up
with is maybe she saw like a movie
when she was a kid and she thought it
was her and that was traumatic
but that just sounds like a stretch
right like
yeah i mean people i would just
mark it off as loony yeah absolutely
so she's off her rocker i'm off her
rocker i sure as hell i'm not scientific
you know because that doesn't bear in
reality but as a clinician
like what do you do when you do therapy
for memories that don't exist
and a patient gets better like how do
you understand that like the clinical
result
is absolutely real i don't know
i really don't know
yeah and this this happens occasionally
you'll get people who like you know
hypnotize and like it's like really bad
science like really
kind of hokey [ __ ] i don't trust most of
it i wouldn't trust myself like
it's not a technique that i employ on a
regular basis it's like because i don't
know what the [ __ ] happened there i mean
maybe she's delusional maybe i'm
delusional
maybe i implanted something or steered
her in a certain way i have no idea
yeah anyway that's earnest
yeah so questions thoughts
um i think my current thoughts
are uh to sit with negative emotions
and then the rest of it kind of sounds
like the avatar state
which i don't think i can do at this
point but seems cool
yeah i'm gonna teach you two practices
i'm down i'm just so you know let me
just say this i gotta dip in about
i would say about like five minutes
that's totally fine practices are gonna
be short
perfect so first practice
i'm going to teach you step one and it's
going to be sort of the same as step two
okay i want you to sit in the moment
between inhalation and exhalation
but don't hold your breath
okay okay i'm manually breathing now
though
yep so notice the inhalation
notice the exhalation don't pause in
between
but there is a space where between
inhalation and acceleration must exist
it does exist i can't tell if i've
manually made it longer or
slower or faster you know yep so just
sit in that space
helps with your eyes closed we're going
to do this for about 60 seconds
okay come back to us what was that like
for you
breathing out is way easier
okay were you able to even find any
inkling of the space between the two
yeah i think in a way i don't know it
felt like i'm like a mario party mini
game
yep and i was good you know i was i was
thinking about that great way to
describe it
yeah that's how it felt okay wow that's
the best description of meditation i've
ever heard now that i thought about it
so here's the next thing okay so this is
going to be practice
for the real technique okay catch the
moment of sleep
so there is a moment where you were
awake
and then there is a moment that you were
asleep yeah right
yeah sit in the in between space
between wakefulness and sleeping okay
and and come back out or just try to sit
there sit there baby
don't be asleep and don't be awake i
catch the moment a lot actually because
the way i sleep is with my head hanging
off the bed and i have my phone and i
usually have a stream open
and the moment i'll fall to sleep i'll
let go of the phone
and so i'll catch myself in that moment
a lot right before i fall asleep
because the phone will fall out of my
hands stay there
yeah stay there as long as you can
okay okay and and this is where it's
interesting because
there's another conversation for another
day about your karma and how you were
meant
for this okay that you are halfway on
this road baby you're already halfway
there i'm just gonna give you a couple
of techniques
to help you go the rest of the way if
the techniques don't work you're going
to get there the rest of the way on your
own
okay okay
and then once once you do those for a
while then we'll give you a technique
specifically on death
but in that transition period when your
mind
it's anyway i won't say anymore but just
do it for a while and check back with me
in a couple months if we ever meet at
twitchcon or something i'll teach you
something in person
sounds good that sounds lovely thanks a
lot for coming on bro
absolutely and chat by the way hey
charity for children we're at 3.4k
look boys it's very easy if you got some
liquid income
i know it'd be covid but i know you be
rich if you on twitch sometimes so take
just a quick bank account for the kids
bring back the policy no child left
behind today
wow you have some great energy about you
bro
i'll match all donations for the next
hour by the way are you going for
another hour
um we're done you're done
you're done you're gonna end yup like
feel for 30.
okay sure and i'll imagine all donations
for 30.
okay cool we'll do that okay i don't
know what i'm going to figure out what
what i'm going to do for 30 but
thanks a lot for coming on absolutely
thank you for having me you don't have
to do 30 if you don't want but
um uh appreciate it it was a good time
it was a good time sorry
cutting it short but it went no no no no
two hours is exactly what we
normally do is perfect take care all
right bye goodbye
thank you okay
chat
you